samples: Bluetooth: Add Direction Finding connectionless Tx sample (#4044)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/direction_finding_connectionless_tx/README.rst

See :ref:`cmake_options` for instructions on how to add this option.
For more information about using configuration overlay files, see :ref:`zephyr:important-build-vars` in the Zephyr documentation.

Antenna matrix configuration for Angle of Departure mode
========================================================

To use this sample when Angle of Departure mode is enabled, additional configuration of GPIOs is required to control the antenna array.
Example of such configuration is provided in a devicetree overlay file :file:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833.overlay`.

The overlay file provides the information about which GPIOs should be used by the Radio peripheral to switch between antenna patches during the CTE transmission in the AoD mode.
At least two GPIOs must be provided to enable antenna switching.

The GPIOs are used by the Radio peripheral in order given by the ``dfegpio#-gpios`` properties.
The order is important because it affects mapping of the antenna switching patterns to GPIOs (see `Antenna patterns`_).

To successfully use the Direction Finding beacon when the AoD mode is enabled, provide the following data related to antenna matrix design:

> * Provide the GPIO pins to `dfegpio#-gpios`` propreties in :file:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833.overlay` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provide the GPIO pins to ``dfegpio#-gpios`` properties in :file:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833.overlay` file
```

Author: Added back-tick, changed propreties->properties.

.. _direction_finding_connectionless_tx:

Bluetooth: Direction finding connectionless beacon
##################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Overview
********

> The direction finding connectionless beacon samplen demonstrates |BLE| Direction Finding Transmission

Reviewer 2: sample

Author: corrected

Author: corrected

It uses the Constant Tone Extension (CTE), that is transmitted with periodic advertising PDUs.

The sample supports two Direction Finding modes:

* Angle of Arrival
* Angle of Departure

By default, both modes are available in the sample.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf52833dk_nrf52833

The sample also requires an antenna matrix when operating in Angle of Departure mode.
It can be a Nordic Semiconductor design 12 patch antenna matrix, or any other antenna matrix.

Configuration
*************

|config|

Angle of Arrival mode
=====================

> To build this sample with Angle of Arrival mode only, set :makevar:`OVERLAY_CONFIG`
> to :file:`overlay-aoa.conf`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build this sample with Angle of Arrival mode only, set ``OVERLAY_CONFIG`` to :file:`overlay-aoa.conf`.
```

Author: corrected line break and removed `:makevar:`

See :ref:`cmake_options` for instructions on how to add this option.
For more information about using configuration overlay files, see :ref:`zephyr:important-build-vars` in the Zephyr documentation.

> Antenna matrix configuration for angle of Departure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Antenna matrix configuration for Angle of Departure mode
```

Author: Corrected to use capital letter and added mode.

===================================================

To use this sample with Angle of Departure enabled, additional configuration of GPIOs is required to control the antenna array.

> Example of such configuration is provided in devicetree overlay file :file:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833.overlay`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example of such configuration is provided in a devicetree overlay file :file:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833.overlay`.
```

Author: Added missing 'a'.

> The overlay file provides provides the information about which GPIOS should be used by Radio peripheral to switch between antenna patches during CTE transmission in AoD mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The overlay file provides the information about which GPIOs should be used by the Radio peripheral to switch between antenna patches during the CTE transmission in the AoD mode.
```

Author: added missing 'the' and corrected GPIOs.

At least two GPIOs must be provided to enable antenna switching.

The GPIOs are used by the Radio peripheral in order given by the ``dfegpio#-gpios`` properties.

> The order is important because it affects mapping of antenna switch patterns to GPIOS (see `Antenna patterns`_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The order is important because it affects mapping of the antenna switching patterns to GPIOs (see `Antenna patterns`_).
```

Author: Added 'the', corrected switch->switching, GPIOS->GPIOs

> To successfully use Direction Finding Beacon when AoD mode enabled, provide the following data related to antenna matrix design:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To successfully use the Direction Finding beacon when the AoD mode is enabled, provide the following data related to antenna matrix design:
```

Author: Added 'the', 'is'. Corrected Beacon->beacon.

.. _direction_finding_connectionless_tx:

> Bluetooth: Direction Finding Connectionless Beacon

Author: Corrected

##################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Overview
********

A simple application demonstrating the BLE Direction Finding CTE Broadcaster functionality

> by transmission of Constant Tone Extension with periodic advertising PDUs.

Author: Corrected

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf52833dk_nrf52833

The sample also requires an antenna matrix to use it in Angle of Departure mode.

> It can be a Nordic Semiconductor design 12 patch antenna matrix or any other antenna matrix.

Author: Corrected

Configuration
*************

|config|

The sample supports two Direction Finding modes:

* Angle of Arrival
* Angle of Departure

> By default both modes are available in the sample application.

Author: Moved up.

> By default both modes are available in the sample application.

Author: Corrected according to suggestion

Angle of Arrival mode
=====================

To build this sample with Angle of Arrival mode only, set :makevar:`OVERLAY_CONFIG`
to :file:`overlay-aoa.conf`.

See :ref:`cmake_options` for instructions on how to add this option.
For more information about using configuration overlay files, see :ref:`zephyr:important-build-vars`
in the Zephyr documentation.

> Antenna matrix configuration

Author: Corrected

> Antenna matrix configuration

Reviewer: Here the heading is still Antenna matrix configuration only.

> Antenna matrix configuration

Author: Added missing part, I'm sorry I've forgotten about it.

> Antenna matrix configuration

Author: This one was corrected by comment: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/4044#discussion_r584633026

============================

To use this sample with Angle of Departure enabled, additional GPIOS configuration
is required to enable control of the antenna array. Example of such configuration

> is provided in :file:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833.overlay`.

Author: Corrected

> is provided in :file:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833.overlay`.

Reviewer: I don't see that the sentence has changed to what is suggested though...

> is provided in :file:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833.overlay`.

Author: I'm sorry, I didn't spot text change just linebreaks. Missing changes added.

:file:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833.overlay` is a device tree overlay that provides information
about which GPIOS should be used by Radio peripheral to switch between antenna
patches during CTE transmission in AoD mode. At least two GPIOs must be provided
to enable antenna switching. GPIOS are used by Radio peripheral in order following
indices of :code:`dfegpio#-gpios` properties. The order is important because it

> affects mapping of antenna switch patterns to GPIOS (see `Antenna patterns`_).

Author: > The GPIOs are used by the Radio peripheral in order following indices of :code:dfegpio#-gpios properties.
There may be a number of `dfegpio#-gpios` properties in devicetree e.g. dfegpio1-gpios, dfegpio2-gpios, dfegpio3-gpios. 
I wanted to inform end used that order of GPIOs used by Radio peripheral is provided by dfegpio#-gpios. 

For:
dfegpio1-gpios = pin 3
dfegpio2-gpios = pin 2
dfegpio3-gpios = pin 33
Radio uses: GPIOs = {3, 2, 33} 
For:
dfegpio1-gpios = pin 33
dfegpio2-gpios = pin 2
dfegpio3-gpios = pin 3
Radio uses: GPIOs = {33, 2, 3}.

That order matters, because each GPIO is mapped bits in an antenna pattern described later.

:code: tag is leftover from Zephyr rst.

> affects mapping of antenna switch patterns to GPIOS (see `Antenna patterns`_).

Author: :code: removed and used instead `` text ``

> affects mapping of antenna switch patterns to GPIOS (see `Antenna patterns`_).

Reviewer: Ok, so how about:

The GPIOs are used by the Radio peripheral in order given by the ``dfegpio#-gpios`` properties.

> affects mapping of antenna switch patterns to GPIOS (see `Antenna patterns`_).

Reviewer: Also remember to add the other suggested changes too :)

> affects mapping of antenna switch patterns to GPIOS (see `Antenna patterns`_).

Author: Added missing changes. Also I've used suggested sentence about GPIOs order.

> affects mapping of antenna switch patterns to GPIOS (see `Antenna patterns`_).

Author: What is wrong with this one?

> affects mapping of antenna switch patterns to GPIOS (see `Antenna patterns`_).

Reviewer: The rest fixed by https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/4044#discussion_r584645035

> To successfully use Direction Finding Beacon with AoD mode enabled provide
> following data related with owned antenna matrix design:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To successfully use the Direction Finding beacon when the AoD mode is enabled, provide the following data related to antenna matrix design:
```

Author: Corrected

Reviewer: I don't see this change in the new doc build either.

Author: Added missing part, I'm sorry I've forgotten about it.

Author: What is wrong with this one?

Reviewer: Fixed by https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/4044#discussion_r584648399

* provide GPIO pins to :code:`dfegpio#-gpios` propreties in :file:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833.overlay` file

> * provide default antenna that will be used to transmit PDU :code:`dfe-pdu-ant`

Reviewer 2: `dfe-pdu-antenna` ?

Author: Corrected

Author: thanks! corrected

> * provide GPIO pins to :code:`dfegpio#-gpios` propreties in :file:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833.overlay` file
> * provide default antenna that will be used to transmit PDU :code:`dfe-pdu-ant`
>   property in :file:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833.overlay` file
> * update antenna patterns in :cpp:var:`ant_patterns` array in :file:`main.c`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provide the GPIO pins to :code:`dfegpio#-gpios` properties in :file:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833.overlay` file
* Provide the default antenna that will be used to transmit the PDU :code:`dfe-pdu-ant` property in :file:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833.overlay` file
* Update the antenna switching patterns in :cpp:var:`ant_patterns` array in :file:`main.c`.
```
Not sure if :cpp:var: is correct.
There are following Breathe domains:
- Function: :c:func:
- Structure: :c:struct:
- Type: :c:type:
- Enum (the list): :c:enum:
- Enumerator (an item): :c:enumerator:
- Macro or define: :c:macro:
- Structure member: :c:member:

Any of these can be used?

Author: Corrected line breaks. Also I used :c:member: instead of :cpp:var:. Lets see outptus.

Reviewer: Good, remember to apply other suggested changes.

Author: Added missing part, I'm sorry I've forgotten about it.

Author: What is wrong with this one?

Antenna patterns
================

> The antenna switch pattern is a binary number where each bit is applied to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The antenna switching pattern is a binary number where each bit is applied to
```

Author: Corected

Author: What is wrong with this one?

a particular antenna GPIO pin. For example, the pattern 0x3 means that antenna

> GPIOs at index 0,1 will be set, and following are left unset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GPIOs at index 0,1 will be set, while the following are left unset.
```

Author: Corected

Author: What is wrong with this one?

> This also means that, for example, when using four GPIOs, the patterns count
> cannot be greater than 16 and maximum allowed value is 15.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This also means that, for example, when using four GPIOs, the pattern count cannot be greater than 16 and the maximum value allowed is 15.
```

Author: Corrected

Author: Corrected patterns->pattern,

If the number of switch-sample periods is greater than the number of stored

> switch patterns, then the radio loops back first pattern.

Reviewer: Loops back to the first pattern?

Author: Yes, that sounds better. Corrected

Reviewer: And I also see that
switch pattern -> switching pattern

Must have missed it last time!

Author: Corrected

The following table presents the patterns that you can use to switch antennas on
the Nordic-designed antenna matrix:

+--------+--------------+
|Antenna | PATTERN[3:0] |
+========+==============+
| ANT_12 |  0 (0b0000)  |
+--------+--------------+
| ANT_10 |  1 (0b0001)  |
+--------+--------------+
| ANT_11 |  2 (0b0010)  |
+--------+--------------+
| RFU    |  3 (0b0011)  |
+--------+--------------+
| ANT_3  |  4 (0b0100)  |
+--------+--------------+
| ANT_1  |  5 (0b0101)  |
+--------+--------------+
| ANT_2  |  6 (0b0110)  |
+--------+--------------+
| RFU    |  7 (0b0111)  |
+--------+--------------+
| ANT_6  |  8 (0b1000)  |
+--------+--------------+
| ANT_4  |  9 (0b1001)  |
+--------+--------------+
| ANT_5  | 10 (0b1010)  |
+--------+--------------+
| RFU    | 11 (0b1011)  |
+--------+--------------+
| ANT_9  | 12 (0b1100)  |
+--------+--------------+
| ANT_7  | 13 (0b1101)  |
+--------+--------------+
| ANT_8  | 14 (0b1110)  |
+--------+--------------+
| RFU    | 15 (0b1111)  |
+--------+--------------+

Dependencies

> ************

Reviewer: Are there any dependencies?
If not, this can be removed?

Reviewer: Oh, I see that this belongs to the text further down. It can be moved.

Author: moved to bottom of the file, where it belongs.

Building and Running
********************
.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/direction_finding_connectionless_tx`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to your development kit, test it by performing the following steps:

1. |connect_terminal_specific|
#. In the terminal window, check for information similar to the following::

      Starting Direction Finding periodic advertising Beacon Demo
      Bluetooth initialization...success
      Advertising set create...success
      Update CTE params...success
      Periodic advertising params set...success
      Enable CTE...success
      Periodic advertising enable...success
      Extended advertising enable...success
      Started extended advertising as XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX (random)

> This sample uses the following Zephyr libraries:

Reviewer: Add the Dependencies heading above this sentence

Author: Corrected
